Hello everyone. This is
tuto material for land and
landcape with two types of material
grass and uh some sands. We have varian
like this grass and some sands or rocks
or clips. What do you want? Okay,
thanks. Let's go. Okay, first thing
first, go to games, select
template and uh rename the project name
landscape auto material. I want to use
this to create new material. Hit
create. First thing first, let's create
new
level. Go to the basic level.
Hit
create. Okay. After that we have to go
right
here. Delete this
landscape. From that let's create
landscape by selecting the
landscape. Create new. Hit create. Okay.
Let's do some sculpting.
and deformation from L
andcape. After that, we have to go here
to the basics. Add player start in this
place. Go to selection mode. Select the
play start. Make it right
here. Go save all. Rename this
one in V1 level number one.
Okay,
fine. Now, let's go here and create a
material.
Auto
[Music]
material. Drag this one in this place.
And let's go to the fab marketplace to
download the the assets.
some
materials. Okay. Search for grass
material and add the filter price to
free.
Let's choose this mosy
grass. I want to choose the highest
quality as possible. Low quality. Add to
my add to my
project. After that, let's search for
dirt. Dirt
material. Ice for
brain.
Let's use this
up to my
project. Now let's close this.
Downloading is finished. Let's go here
and create material
functions. First one is grass function.
Second one is dirt
function. Let's begin with the grass.
Okay, first thing first. Let's go here
to the
tab scan
[Music]
surfaces grass row
material. Okay.
Textures. Drag all of press shift.
Select all of
them. Make it like this.
After that, let's add the make material
attributes
node. This
one plug it
here. After that, let's go and then
select the texture. The first one is a
base color for the base color. Normal
for the normal. And finally, the mask,
the red channel for the ambient
occlusion.
occlusion, a green channel for the
roughness, and the blue channel for the
displacement. Search here
for texture
coordinates. Multiply node.
and
constant. The first one convert to
parameter this is
grass scaler name this one default value
set to
one one is 100%.
Drag all of those to the UV
maps. I think the first function is
[Music]
done. Zip
all. Now let's move to the second
function. Let's go here
[Music]
surfaces ground
wrapper. Okay. Before that we have to go
ahead to the dirt function.
do the same
thing. Make material
attributes. Drag this function right
here and search for the D. Let's go to P
scan
services
ground. Okay.
Texture. Select all of those and drag it
right here.
base color
normal ambient occlusion, green channel
for the
roughness and blue channel for the
displacement.
Okay. Now texture
coordinators add multiply
node. Add
constant vector. Set default value to
one. Convert to parameter. Rename this
one dirt scaler.
and drag one of those to the
maps. Save
all. Now let's return to the auto
material. Go to the content
drawer and go here to the content.
Okay, before we continue, we have to go
here to the grass function and hit
apply. Dirt function. Hit apply. And
let's go
here the content drawer. Drag the first
one grass function. Second one dirt
function.
Now let's create the brake material
attributes and here in the
functions we are making materials. Now
we have to break this material
attributes. To do that we have to select
this node. First one is
grass. Ctrl Ctrl + V. Second one is
dirt.
Okay, let's add between them linear
interpolate
function. Okay, the first one is dirt
for the
A and
B is a grass. Now let's add a world
alignment blend.
for the
alpha. Select the alpha. Now to blend
between two those materials, we have to
add two
constants.
constant Ctrl Ctrl +
V. Okay. Convert to parameter. This
one grass
sharpness
sharp default value to one for now. Want
to change it later.
This one
grasps. First one, let's drag it to the
sharpness. Second one, let's drag it to
the BS. Default value, it's the same
one. Now, from this layer, let's drag it
to the base
color. Let's move to the normal. Now
let's duplicate this one. Ctrl C. Ctrl +
V. This
L. Okay. First
normal. This one for the
B. Second normal for the
A. And drag this one normal map to the
normal. Duplicate this L another time.
Now let's move to the ambient
occlusion. And this one for the
mask. This one for the
A. And the other one for the
B. Drag it to the
occlusion. Okay. Save. Okay. The problem
the auto marator is not showing right in
this place. Okay. To fix this problem we
have to change the default value. Let's
change the default one the sharpness for
50. And look at this. It's changed. And
this one - 10 for
example -
5. I think it's
good. Okay.
Now let's go here for my
auto apply.
and go here. Select the landscape. Once
it's selected, let's go here to the
landscape
material. Drag the
automat. Okay, let's see the changes.
It's not changed.
Okay, let's go here and create material
instance. Select this one and press this
button. Now, let's go here for my
instance. Drag it
[Music]
down. Go to the global scaler. Select
all of
them. Okay, let's change some values
from here.
Let's see some changes.
Okay, I think it's good. Look at
material. It works very fine. We have
height and auto material for this
variation. We want to fix this
problem in the next tutorial. Let's see.
Let's go here and see it works or
not. Let's go here. the
sculpting and let's make a height. Look
at
this. The material is changed. Okay,
thank you guys. This all for this
tutorial. See you later in the next
tutorial. Subscribe to the channel. Hit
like and comment and support me in
Patreon in link in description for more
tutorials like this.